All right, friend.
So today I'm going to go ahead and read our scripture.
We're going to be in John 17, one through three.
Because this is a gospel work, we're going to ask that you stand wherever you are.
I won't know if you don't, but I think you should.
So if you would stand with us now, hear the word of the Lord.
After Jesus had spoken these words, he looked up to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come.
glorify your son so that the son may glorify you, since you have given him authority over all people to give eternal life to all whom you have given him.
And this is eternal life that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God, you may be seated.
As you may be able to gather based off of this scripture, we're gonna be talking about this idea of eternal life this morning.
But before we dive into it, I wanna first talk to you about bucket list.
And I feel like bucket lists were probably trendier back in like the early 2000s, mid 2000s.
There was like a movie called bucket list that I don't know anything about, but I do remember seeing that there was something called bucket list.
And so this was kind of a trend for those who may not know, and you should, but for those who don't, right, a bucket list
is a number of experiences or achievements that we wanna cross off of a list of things to do before we die, right?
So would anyone here of the eight people that are gathering in front of me that I can see wanna tell me one of your bucket list items?
Travel abroad.
Travel abroad, okay, someone else, a bucket list item, please.
Go to Antarctica, okay, why?
That's okay, we don't have time to get into it, but okay, Antarctica, last person, someone Holler,
Find a dinosaur bone.
Whoo-hoo.
Excellent.
Since you guys asked, these are some of the things I want to do on my bucket list.
Number one, I would like to do an African Sephora one day.
I think that would be so much fun.
I would also like to do in the same vein.
It seems to be kind of a trend.
I would like to travel to like 30 countries.
Whoa, Nelly, that would be so cool.
The last one, and I picked this one because I'm hoping our music minister over in traditional timber becomes back and watches this because he's going to get a kick out of this.
The last thing I want to do on my bucket list is I want to do a week-long silent retreat.
And you guys at home can't hear that, but two people laughed at that.
Then there's two people that know me very well.
So I want to just see if I can handle it, right?
So bucket list are things that we do to document the lives that we hope for.
They are how we measure whether life was full of meaningful experiences.
Like, did I do enough?
Did I see enough?
Did I squeeze everything out of the time that I've been given?
Did I make every last drop count?
I get in trouble with my family sometimes because they tell me that I do too much, that I spend too many plates, that I'm constantly going.
And this is something that I've struggled with my whole life.
I like to stay busy.
I like to say yes to things.
I've always been someone who chases after the next thing.
And if I'm being completely honest, part of that comes from this deep-seated fear of merely existing without actually living.
And I'm wondering if anyone else has ever felt that way.
Like sometimes it feels as if time is chasing me and it's gaining ground and there's still so much that I haven't done yet that I wanna do.
And so I feel like I'm constantly sprinting to what comes next and there's like this internal countdown clock and I'm racing to beat it.
And I know that I can't be the only person that kind of feels that and internalizes this kind of pressure.
And so that raises a deeper question.
What does it actually mean to really live?
Our culture has some loud opinions on this, I think, right?
Think about the music that we listen to or the movies that we watch or the shows that we bend, right?
Like, truly living is framed as thrill and risk and it looks like
adventure and adrenaline and living is cliff diving and bungee jumping and the things that I would never do, right?
It's partying hard, it's having a good time and a giant friend group and making every last moment mean something.
We grow up hearing phrases like seize the day, right?
Or don't slow down, don't miss out, life is short, enjoy it.
We're constantly bombarded by these ideas.
And so according to the stories we're told, a good life is made up of a full calendar, or it's made up of a highlight reel we're sharing on Facebook or Instagram.
But here's the question I want us to sit with today.
Is that the same thing Jesus means when he talks about life?
And even more pointedly than that maybe, is that what eternal life is really about?
Our scripture today comes from a chapter in the book of John that's in a prayer.
The entire thing is a prayer.
And it's Jesus praying on behalf of his disciples, which I think could be a whole sermon itself, right?
Like the Jesus is taking an entire chapter's worth of material to talk about us to God, right?
Like he's talking about these people that he loves to God.
And so it's really important that this is the word of Jesus and it's coming right before his crucifixion.
And he's sitting there and he's praying and he's talking to the father and he has the full weight of what's coming on him.
Like he knows he's about to experience the brutality of the cross.
He knows that he's about to experience the anguish of human physical suffering, but also the weight of humanity sin on him.
Like he knows that that's coming.
And so he speaks these words.
Father, the hour has come, glorify your son so that the son may glorify you.
Since you have given him authority all over all people to give eternal life to all whom you have given him, and then he tells us what eternal life is, he says, and this is eternal life, that they may know you the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
If you've been here an intersection with us for a while, you know that when I preach, I usually do something called a word study.
which is a theological term that means that I go and I look at the Greek, which sounds more impressive than it is because anyone can pull up the original Greek if you just Google it.
And so I go to blueletterbible.com and I look at it in a literally your Bible and I pick out words in the original manuscript.
and try to see if there's any difference or if we lose something in our English interpretation of things.
And so when Brother Andrew told us that we were going to Brother Andrew is so funny.
I call him that in the office and I have to remind myself not to say that in front of other people because y'all won't know who I'm talking about.
I'm talking about Pastor Andy, okay?
So Pastor Andy said we're gonna be talking about this passage and I went to the inner linear Bible to see what I could find that's different in this passage in the original Greek, okay?
And this is where things get interesting because I was really fixated on this idea of life.
And so I went to life here, and it's Zoe, is how it's pronounced, and the original coin and Greek.
And there's actually three layers of meaning.
So there's three different definitions that could be applied.
So the first one is life can refer to physical vitality, the simple fact of being alive.
or it could also mean the fullness of life that belongs to God.
So it is the life of, it is actually being alive and also the life that we receive in our salvation.
But the definition that John is drawing on here goes even deeper than both of those two definitions.
Because see, it describes life that is real and genuine, a life that is active and vigorous, a life devoted to God, a life that is blessed,
There's an ancient writer who was looking at all of these different definitions and interpretations of life, and he's looking at this passage in particular, and he wrote in Latin, it's the vida quesola vida nominata, okay?
Which is the life which alone deserves to be called life.
The life which alone deserves to be called life.
This is not just existing.
This is not just surviving.
This is the life that truly lives.
This is the kind of life friends that alone deserves to be called life.
It is a life of vitality and hope.
It is a life marked by devotion to God into each other.
It is a life that knows the blessing of community and fellowship and love.
A life that can only be known through relationship.
This life,
this eternal life is not something that starts after death.
It's the kind of life that begins now and carries us all the way through forever.
See, if we're looking at the scripture and we're understanding this definition of life, then Jesus is telling us that eternal life is not a destination that we reach someday.
This is not a scripture about heaven.
Eternal life friends is a relationship.
It is at its core about a love story between us and God.
And it is true that life is short, y'all.
We know that.
And I also believe that God wants us to enjoy our time here.
But friends, eternity is long.
And Jesus is inviting us to live now in a way that actually prepares us for it.
So if eternal life is not a place we go to someday, but a relationship that we live into now, then we need to be very clear about what kind of relationship it is that we are actually engaging in.
Jesus talking to his father said, this is eternal life, that they may know you, not know about you,
Not have all the right answers, not have all the right doctrine, not say all the right churchy theology, not be able to explain everything perfectly.
Jesus says the key to eternal life is to know you, Lord.
Y'all, in scripture, knowing God is never just an intellectual activity.
This is not just about us having some sort of agreement that we come to with God.
relational to know God is to, it's a lived and embodied thing.
It's the kind of knowing that shapes how you love other people, how you trust, how you move through the world.
So eternal life, according to Jesus, is not about length of time.
It's about depth of relationship.
Eternal life begins when our lives become oriented toward God.
toward knowing Him and walking with Him and experiencing Him.
And I believe that that reframes everything for us, or it should anyway, because if eternal life is knowing God, then it's not something we postpone, and it's not some sort of future reward that we're waiting for.
It's a way of living now.
It's a life rooted in attention and trust and hope.
which means eternal life looks less like a bucket list and more like a way of being.
It looks like paying attention to God's presence instead of constantly chasing the next thing.
It looks like slowing down enough to listen for the voice of God.
It looks like choosing faithfulness over frenzy.
Our culture tells us that life is found in speed and risk
and stuff and accumulation and what comes next.
More experiences, more accomplishments, more memories were constantly after the next big thing.
But Jesus tells us that life is found in knowing the God who gives life in the first place.
Because here's the thing, everything eventually runs out of oxygen.
Knowing God and being in relationship with Him isn't better
in the way a nicer phone is better than an old one.
It's not better than chasing the next best thing, just like that's not just lip service that we're giving this morning.
Being in relationship with God and knowing Him is better for us because it speaks to a deeper hunger than success.
Knowing Jesus speaks to a deeper hunger than romance or approval or comfort or certainty.
Those things are good and real and they're often gifts, y'all, but they're
They're not going to last forever, right?
They crack under pressure.
And they also take from us.
They ask us to keep feeding them.
But relationship with God is different.
Because our relationship with God doesn't depend on our usefulness or our productivity or our likability or our ability to produce or to keep it together.
God knows you fully and still chooses you.
That kind of being known without being consumed, we rewires our souls.
So when we know God, we know that we are loved before we ever perform.
We know that we belong before we believe everything perfectly.
We know that we are held even when life makes no sense.
Even when we have no answers, we know that God still has us.
Because the reality is our lives and our culture will tell us that we have to earn our worth by becoming someone.
But God says that your worth is settled so now you can become who you were made to be.
Don't forget this.
Knowing God doesn't shrink your life, it deepens it.
Joy becomes something that lasts and suffering becomes something we don't bear by ourselves.
When we are known and in relationship with God, we are never alone and we are always eternally loved.
So here's the grace that I want us to focus on today.
Friends, you don't have to outrun time to live fully.
You don't have to prove that your life was meaningful because you have no one to impress.
You don't have to exhaust yourself trying to squeeze everything in because when your life is rooted in knowing God, your life is already connected to eternity.
Yes, life is short, but God delights and joy and beauty and laughter and good gifts, but eternity is long.
And Jesus is inviting us to begin living eternal life now, not by doing more, but by knowing him more deeply.
And so this is the life that alone deserves to be called life.
A life grounded in God.
A life shaped by divine love.
A life that is real, genuine, and enduring.
Would you pray with me?